We've got a place to write some code around our testing framework.
Now we definitely have a lot of code to write here and so I think they would be pretty nice if a front
we kind of came up with a game plan on how to tackle this.
So I sat down and broke up the entire process of how we could actually test some stuff in general and
how we might actually implement it.
So I think that there are four different major steps we need to focus on.
The first two we have to do whenever we run our command line tool.
We have to take a look at the project directory that the command line tool is being executed from.
Just be really clear the reason that we set up this command line tool in the last video is that we can
go over to some other project directory like let's say our movies testing project.
So ideally we would want to change over to this other folder and then run our TMC command inside of
here.
If we did that we should then attempt to find all the different test files inside of this project directory
and execute all them one at a time.
So that's the idea.
We're never going to essentially sit inside of our team directory and just run stuff from directly inside
of here.
The entire team tool is all about creating the command line tool that's going to run inside of some
other project so that mind.
The first thing we have to do is take a look at the project directory that we're trying to run some
tests inside of we're going to iterate through all the different files and folders inside there and
find all the different files ending with test dot J.S..
So we're going to refer to that as the file collection stage of our application.
Once we have then collected all those different files we have to do some environments setup before we
run any tests.
So in other words we need to make sure that we can somehow execute those files and make sure that they
have the ability to have some like browser based javascript code inside them as I mentioned earlier.
That's definitely gonna be a big challenge.
We're going to figure out during this second step.
Once we do that environment setup will then actually execute each test file.
And so that's we're going to run each little test for each little it statement inside of each one one
by one at a time and watch for any errors that might occur.
And then finally once we've collected all the results from all these different tests we need to kind
of tabulate all that data and print out the results to the terminal.
So the developer who is using our tool understands what test failed and what test actually passed so
we're going to try to break out the implantation of our framework into these four different steps.
I'll be honest with you some missteps might slightly blend together over time because it turns out that
well it's kind of easiest to first get a collection of all different files and then figure out how to
execute them and then figure out the enviroment execution and then figure out the report stuff.
But in general this is how we're going to review the implementation these four different parts.
So as you would guess we're going to first focus on the bio collection stage so for this step we're
gonna break it out into kind of some sub steps so we have to go through.
So we need to find all the files ending in test dot J.S. recursively through a folder.
So the earlier l s program that we worked on we just printed out all the different files and folders
inside of one single directory but now that we're working on this application if we run the TMG command
from inside of say the movie's testing directory remember inside there we had that test folder and inside
the test folder was the autocomplete test jazz file.
So if we run TMC and side of movie stash testing I want to be able to find the file inside this nesting
directory nested directory ending and test out J.S. and make sure that we execute that one.
So in other words we need to recursively step through all the different folders inside of a project
that's definitely gonna add in a little bit of extra complexity then every single time we find a relevant
file we're going to store a reference to it and say hey here's a file that we need to run at some point
time in the future then finally after we iterate through all the different files and folders inside
of a project then we're going to start to execute them all step by step one by one.
And so that's really the test execution stage.
We spoke about just a moment ago okay so clearly step number one is to take a look at the given project
directory that we're running our team come in from and find all the different files and folders inside
there and specifically all the different files ending in Test matches.
So let's start to write some code that's just going to accomplish this right here so to get started
I'm going to go back over to my project directory.
We definitely are going to end up with a lot of code inside of our project.
And so if we just start to throw all this code right into index dot J.S. Right away I can just guarantee
you that we're going to end up with a really messy project.
So rather than doing that we're going to preemptively break out our project into several different files
and essentially combine them all together inside of index J.S. the first thing I'm going to do is create
a new file inside of here that I'll call runner J.S. This file is gonna contain a bunch of code related
to the entire process of collecting all the different files then doing a little bit of environment setup
then running the tests.
The actual test environment setup will be inside of a different file.
We're not going to like regardless stuff everything inside of here.
So the runner not just file it really effectively is just about collecting all the different files calling
some function that's going to do the environment set up for us and then eventually running each test
file as well so inside of a runner J.S. in order to represent all this functionality of finding those
files.
All these different steps.
I think that to organize our code it would be a good idea to try to use a class so we can have a lot
of different functions inside this file.
They would all be grouped together inside of one class.
I gonna make a new class inside of here called runner and then going to export that at the bottom and
make it available to probably the index not just file which is where we would likely at want to eventually
make use of it.
And inside of runner right away we know that this class is going to be responsible for well just doing
exactly everything we just said one critical step is to make sure that the runner class is going to
store a reference to each file we find.
So to me that's kind of a signal that we need to have some kind of data structure inside of our class
that's going to be able to store a reference to every test file that we discover.
So right away I know that I probably need to make a constructor and define some kind of instance variable
inside of here.
That's going to store a reference to every file that we discover.
So I'm going to make a array inside of here and assign it to this dot files.
Then after that I'm going to add a method to the runner that I will call collect files so inside of
collect files as you'd guess we're going to iterate through all the different folders of a project every
single time that we find a file ending and test out.
Yes we're going to add that file name in its path to the this dot files array.
And so after collect files is all done running then at the very end we'll know that this dot files contains
all the different file names that we need to eventually execute.
It's now it's just a question of how we're going to implement collect files and iterate recursively
through all these different folders.
Let's definitely gonna be just a little bit of a challenge.
Let's take a quick pause right here and come back in just a moment.